# midterm-project-Erhardt4
This project attempts to answer the question: Are individuals in the USA with access to Google culturally aware (or care) of international democracy changes? To answer this question, data from google trends was used to judge cultural awareness, and EIU Democracy Indexes data from Gapminder was used to judge changes in democracy in countries around the world. Data from both data sets were plotted as line graphs to compare the democracy index over time to the frequency of keywords. The rate of change of democracy indexes and keyword frequency was examined to compare the magnitudes of correlating rates of change. Each data set was individually plotted as histograms and a box plot to understand more context about the data.

The pytrends API needs to be downloaded. There is code at the top of the computational essay which downloads the API. Instructions to download the API outside of the computational essay can be found at https://pypi.org/project/pytrends/.

No changes to the code are needed to run this code.

Similar data to the data used for the EIU Democracy Indexes data can be found at https://www.gapminder.org/data/ under "select an indicator" > "society" > "democracy" > "democracy indexes from EIU." Data similar to the google trends' data can be found at https://trends.google.com/ for any keyword or search time. This data can be viewed at this site or accessed through the pytrends API.

In order to generate plots similar to the plots plotting democracy index data, the following functions which are found in gapMinderDataManipulation.py can be used: plot_data, plot_chosen_countries, plot_rates, plot_rate_chosen_countries, plot_histogram, plot_histogram_all_years, plot_histogram_all_data. The functions plot_data and plot_chosen_countries generate line graphs of the EIU Index data with the proper title, axis labels, and legend. The functions plot_rates and plot_rate_chosen_countries generate line graphs of the rate of change of EIU Index data with the proper title, axis labels, and legend. The functions plot_histogram, plot_histogram_all_years, and plot_histogram_all_data plot histograms of the EIU Democracy Index data with the proper title and axis labels. 

To generate plots similar to the plots plotting google trends data, the following functions, which are found in plot_country.py, can be used: make_plots, rolling_average_pct, rolling_average, histograms, boxplots, and pytrend_analysis. The function make_plots plots a line graph of the google trends data. The function rolling_average_pct plots a line graph of the percent change of the google trends data. The function rolling_average plots a line graph of the rolling average of the google trends data. The function histograms plots histograms of the google trends data. The function boxplots plots boxplots of the google trends data. The pytrends_analysis function plots a line graph of the google trends data, a line graph of the percentage rate of change of the rolling average of the google trends data, a boxplot of the google trends data, and a histogram of the rolling trends data.

The exact usage of these plotting functions, including necessary inputs and functional limitations, can be found in each function's corresponding docstrings.